---
date: 2024-08-21T00:01:00.000Z
layout: post
title: Accurate and Robust Propogators for Land Seismic Imaging
subtitle: Immersed Boundary Method in Finite-Differences for Accurate Land-Air Boundary Conditions
description: >-
  Immersed Boundary Method in Finite-Differences for Accurate Land-Air Boundary Conditions 
image: >-
  /images/land-waves.png
optimized_image: >-
  /images/land-waves-opt.png
category: RTM/FWI
tags:
  - DSL
  - Python
  - HPC
  - RTM
  - FWI
  - Seismic
author: <a href="https://www.devitocodes.com/about/#gerard-gorman-ceo-and-co-founder">Gerard Gorman (CEO)</a>, and <a href="https://www.devitocodes.com/about/#edward-ed-caunt-research-scientist">Ed Caunt (Research Scientist)</a>
paginate: true
---

At Devito Codes, we continue to push the boundaries of seismic imaging and wave
propagation. Our latest innovation, to be showcased at IMAGE'24, addresses one
of the most challenging aspects of land seismic imaging: accurately modeling
wavefields in the presence of complex topography using finite-difference
methods, all without the need for unstructured mesh generation.

**Understanding the Challenge**

Topographic effects must be carefully accounted for in imaging algorithms;
otherwise, they can introduce artifacts or result in poor imaging quality.
Traditionally, incorporating topography into solvers has been a complex and
time-consuming task, often requiring the development of bespoke solutions that
are difficult to generalize across different wave equations. While
finite-element methods and mesh generation offer potential solutions, they come
with significant challenges, including a lack of software and practical
experience in developing finite-element inversion methods for exploration
geophysics and the absence of robust automatic mesh generation techniques. These
factors make finite-element approaches less attractive for building efficient
seismic imaging processing pipelines, further complicating the incorporation of
complex topography for land seismic imaging.

**A General Approach to Modelling Complex Topography**

To solve this problem, weâ€™ve developed Schism, a module that automatically
generates immersed-boundary operators for Devito. Schism simplifies the
integration of complex topographies into wave propagation models, separating
topography specification from numerical implementation. This allows imaging
algorithms to leverage sophisticated topography handling routines without added
complexity.

Immersed boundaries represent free surfaces as sharp interfaces on a regular
grid, accurately reflecting the true surface position. This method eliminates
the need for mesh generation or curvilinear grids, by constructing suitable
field extensions beyond the boundary, which are incorporated into
surface-adjacent FD operators, enforcing the necessary boundary conditions.

Our paper, [A Novel Immersed Boundary Approach for Irregular Topography with
Acoustic Wave Equations](https://doi.org/10.1190/geo2023-0515.1), published
earlier this year in *Geophysics*, demonstrates this approach by modeling wave
propagation around the complex topography of Mount St. Helens.

As illustrated below, the 3D free-surface wavefield is accurately rendered,
capturing the intricate interactions of the wavefield with steep, uneven
terrain. This showcases the power of the immersed boundary method in addressing
real-world seismic challenges.

![Wave propagation around the complex topography of Mount St. Helens](/images/StHelens.png)

**Applying to Land Seismic Data**

We are collaborating with service companies like
[S-Cube](https://www.s-cube.com/xwi-plus-devito) to apply these methods to
real-world land seismic applications. Accurately modeling acoustic and elastic
TTI wavefield behavior in environments with pronounced and irregular topography
is essential. Our immersed boundary method effectively captures topographic
effects such as surface multiples, amplitude variations, and diffraction around
obstacles while maintaining the regular computational grids commonly used in
imaging applications. This makes it an ideal choice for integrating topography
handling into existing solvers and imaging workflows.

The innovation here lies in the robustness and generality of the approach,
allowing integration into existing seismic data processing pipelines. The
boundary treatment is tied to the discretization, boundary conditions, and
geometry but not to the governing equations. Through symbolic computation and a
generalized mathematical approach, immersed boundary treatments can be generated
for various equations and boundary conditions, ensuring flexibility and ease of
use. For example, higher-order free surface conditions derived from isotropic
acoustic wave equations behave similarly in acoustic TTI contexts, offering a
computationally efficient alternative.

**Join Us at IMAGE'24**

Our immersed boundary support is now available as an experimental feature in
DevitoPRO. If you are interested in learning more about Schism, Devito, or
DevitoPRO, we invite you to meet Dr. Ed Caunt at the poster session during
IMAGE'24. Dr. Caunt will be presenting in the "Recent Advances in Seismic
Modeling 1" session (Session ID: SMT P1) on August 29, 2024, from 8:00 AM to
9:40 AM at Poster Station 3 (3rd Level) A, in the George R. Brown Convention
Center. This is an excellent opportunity to dive deeper into this innovative
approach and explore how it can be applied to your seismic imaging challenges.

